# PlaylistPicker
A simple internet radio automation application for scheduling playlists and station IDs, built on Mac Catalyst and the Music app. I created PlaylistPicker from an iOS app called Radio Run I designed to work on an iPhone or iPad. Since handheld device apps sleep when unattended, the playlist scheduling required human assistance to work properly, so I ported Radio Run to work exclusively for Mac Catalyst. To run PlaylistPicker as intended, there are several requirements:
1) A fairly large music collection. To run mine 24/7, I created 7 playlists with 200 to 600 songs each. Most of them run every day, some on weekends.
2) A few dozen audio files that serve as your station IDs. These are 5-15 seconds long in my system. I record them using tools such as Audacity, GarageBand, and either live voice or computer speech. Give each playlist’s IDs a song and an artist name at minimum in the audio file metadata. The artist name should be consistent across each playlist they will be used within. Create one or more separate playlists for your IDs.
3) Running a MacOS that supports Mac Catalyst—as of this writing Big Sur thru Sonoma.

On launch, you will be prompted to create at least two playlists per day in Playlist Set Up. First, name the playlist. Each playlist requires two components from the table of playlists you created in Music. By default, you choose the music list first. Then tap the ID tab underneath, and choose the list of IDs that will provide the station information between songs. You also need to provide the artist name assigned to the sound files for the IDs so the app can skip adding them to the Recent Artists list as the playlist runs. Decide if you want IDs to run after a certain number of songs or after a time interval, then set the increment in songs or minutes. Set the time for the playlist to start and the weekdays it will run. You can suppress repetition by artist or, if your playlist is artist-oriented, by album. If your playlist opens an internet stream, leave the choice blank. After setting the increments for separation by artist/album, and the amount of time before recently played songs can recur, tap Save Playlist.

Besides the main interface and setup interface, there is a view for chacking up on saved playlists and playlists scheduled for the current day. Tapping any saved playlist opens an alert displaying that playlist’s parameters. The Edit Music button presents a table view of the currently running playlist. Here, you can modify song order by swapping their positions, or delete a song. Tap Save to update the music queue before the current song ends.

  **Known Issues**

  If you plan to use PlaylistPicker continuously over several days, be aware that the app will encroach on memory over time. Using Apple’s existing Media Player frameworks makes this largely unavoidable. Resetting the app every 2-3 days simply involves quitting and restarting it. This has no effect on the playlist already running in Music. PlaylistPicker will ask if you want to queue the next playlist or start a new one when you reopen it.
